JR RIGGINS PODCAST - COMPLETE TRANSCRIPT
==========================================

Generated: $(date)
Total Episodes: 3
Combined File: jr_riggins_podcast_all.txt

Table of Contents:
- Episode 1: JR_RIGGINS_-01
- Episode 2: JR_RIGGINS_-02
- Episode 3: JR_RIGGINS_-03

==========================================

EPISODE 1: JR_RIGGINS_-01
=========================

Hello, this is Jim Skogard with This Is Us podcast. My guest today is J.R. Riggins from House District 59, State of Wyoming. How are you today, J.R.?
I'm doing well, Jim. Thanks for the invitation and looking forward to how this all turns out.
Hey, J.R., you know, me, I grew up in Grable Basin and I understand you grew up here in Casper?
Actually, I'm a South Dakotan born, but I worked out here from the age of 15 over in Cody and until today.
So I've been here as long as most people, except for 15 years, the age of 15 before that, I was mostly staying at home in South Dakota.
Gotcha. J.R., you just started with the house in January 2025, is that correct?
Yep. Elected here in the November election in the 24.
In 24? Oh, so you were elected in the 24 election and you got sworn in in January.
And what have been the challenges, do you think, so far?
Was it a steep learning curve to figure out how to interact in the house?
You know, I'm not completely, I'm not a novice to things like Robert's Rules from being involved in county politics and committee meetings.
I was on the state committee for three years, but they use a different set of rules there.
The biggest thing to get adjusted to is because there's 60-some people in there, so you don't trample over one another.
Very specific ways to communicate on the floor.
Lots of integration with other departments, the legislative service office, the membership, the whole process from getting a bill introduced to getting it passed.
In a short time frame, in a hurry.
I see.
Did anything ever get done in a hurry, do you think?
Well, we had a big goal of running, we had the five and dime plan.
I think that was five bills passed in 10 days.
And I think technically they made the cut on that.
Now granted, remember, that's just on the house side.
It still gets got to cross over to the Senate.
And that 10 days might be out the window.
And all you can do is focus on that side is the house activity, right?
Out of your hands.
Even a bill is out of your hands.
Once you get it introduced into the session, now it belongs to the body.
It's not your bill anymore in a sense.
So you're hoping it comes out looking like what you sent it in there.
Yeah, I understand.
So, JR, what got you interested in running for a house, for the state house?
Oh, I've been always kind of a policy wonk about stuff.
I've always been interested in, not so much, I've been interested in public policy at a federal level for land management planning.
I've been involved in that for probably 23 years since the thing called the 2005 travel management planning rule was passed by the United States Department of Agriculture.
I was very much motivated by that, learned a great deal about that.
So that was my first real introduction to public policy management, I guess, and how you can influence it.
So, was I really necessarily looking to do this 10 years ago?
I just recently retired here in July.
This wasn't really what I imagined I'd be doing.
I kind of thought I'd be riding my motorcycle and working on it when I wasn't doing that.
That was mostly what I was going to do.
But the way things turned out, my involvement with GOP politics at the county level, you know, I was familiar with a lot of people, knew a lot of what topics were.
And then, of course, we had a lot of stuff coming up this last two years from COVID and on that kind of motivated people to get more involved in public policy after you've seen all this from property taxes and all the other things that seemed to really mushroom over the next last three or four years, right?
Right. So, would you say that you were motivated more as just kind of something that you always wanted to do?
Or is there some specific things that you wanted to address in the state?
You know, you and I, we're both from Mills.
So, we're right here in Toronto County.
I'm a constituent of yours.
Yeah.
And so, I'm kind of interested.
Like, JR represents me down there in Cheyenne.
You know, what exactly is it that – do you have something specific that you're trying to accomplish?
I know that you showed me a bill earlier about some vehicle stuff, and I thought that was interesting, you know.
Well, you know, my initial – my campaign – I was looking at my campaign literature from last – almost a year ago, right?
Right.
And property tax, of course, was a big deal.
Now, we've addressed a lot of property tax issues.
You know, we have the relief portion, which a lot of that was coming online in this year, and 25 was applied, right?
So, I actually received those reliefs, long-term homeowners and all the other 25% reduction, et cetera, et cetera.
But, I only had two bills last year.
I had one bill regarding wind turbine blade disposal, which was kind of an issue around here in Casper for a while because of our landfill and stuff.
They were taking some of the blades.
I think there was a lot of confusion about that, and I didn't know if that bill would get introduced or not, but it got introduced in the very first week.
Sweet.
That was one of your bills.
That was one of my bills.
And was it successful?
No, it was not successful.
It got tabled, but you know what?
It achieved its goal to make –
Awareness, right?
To get people's attention.
What are you going to do with the blades in the future?
Right.
What is your solid waste disposal plan revolving around wind turbine farms in Wyoming?
There still isn't really a defined solid waste disposal plan.
They take up quite a bit of space, don't they?
Yeah.
And who's paying for that?
Does the operator have to pay the landfill for that?
You know what?
The landfill makes some money off of it.
I'll be honest with you.
If they would have – they were kind of neutral on the bill, realistically, until it got heard.
And once it was going to be heard, because they do have a lot of room at our landfill.
They do.
We do have a little space here in Wyoming.
We do have a little space.
And so they could make some money off that, a decent amount of money per ton.
And truthfully, if they probably would have highlighted that and say this offsets from keeping our operational cost being passed on, it kind of helps reduce it.
You know, people might be all right with it, but most people are thinking,
are you just going to fill up our landfill full of turbine blades?
That really was the motivating factor.
I see.
Yeah, and it didn't help when we had turbines right here within, I view of town, that aren't producing any electricity anyway, right?
Yeah, we've kind of got a question mark sitting out there in Evansville, don't we?
And that's going to go away.
They are going to go ahead and –
Are we taking them down and recycling them?
Get a little copper value out of it, maybe?
Well, I will say this.
The whole recycling about turbine blades, I think that's a bit of a myth.
Well, that's kind of – they're all fiberglass, aren't they?
Yeah, fiberglass, glue, resin.
Yeah, you're not going to make anything out.
That's just garbage.
So the landfill is the proper place for that.
But it got people's attention, Bill, and still something needs to be resolved.
Anyway, I felt it was – actually, I was very happy with it.
I felt it was a success because I got a lot of people talking to me about it, especially during the session.
Well, that's good.
It got their attention and has still got to go forward with more stuff to see what happens in the future because there's going to be 5,000, 6,000, 7,000 turbines in this state.
Yeah, there's – we have a lot of wind, don't we?
Yeah, 20,000, 30,000 blades.
I've got to go somewhere.
We've got a lot of wind and that stuff.
All that equipment is going to eventually wear out.
I've always wondered how they plan to make any money on wind energy when they have such high overhead.
Maybe there's enough wind to offset it, but I just – I'm not sure.
Anyway, moving on.
If you'd like to stick on energy, we could talk a little bit about nuclear power.
That seems to be popping up a little bit.
Well, that was certainly a hot topic here in Casper, so –
Oh, yeah, out in – bar none.
Right.
North of town.
I did take a tour at Idaho National Labs, and I'll be blunt.
I told people this up front.
Really, the least of my concern was the waste product, right?
Right.
At least the way that it's handled and stored.
Seems to be safe, does it?
Well –
Or at least safe.
It's certainly – those casts they're stored in are extremely robust.
Right.
I mean, 450 – they're equivalent about the size for people who live in Wyoming.
Everybody knows what a 400-barrel frack tank is.
Right.
Most of us do, right?
Take that 400-barrel frack tank, cut about three feet of concrete around it, and then shrink it down to a much smaller size on the inside.
Just going back to the 400-barrel frack tank, those are the ones you can load on the back of a truck and haul up and down the road.
Yeah.
They're not real – the real big ones, like out at Tallgrass, where they have, like, a storage –
Like the oil barrel.
I mean, 250,000 barrels.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Those are the ones that are stationary.
They're the ones that can move.
Yeah.
They're 20 feet tall, 12 foot wide.
And they put a little spent rod inside of one of those.
Well, it's a little bit bigger than that, but, you know, there's all types of varieties of them.
And the thing of it is, those things are extremely robust.
But I did tell people, it doesn't matter if they built one nuclear reactor or 200 nuclear reactors.
Somebody's going to be maintaining that single cask of spent nuclear fuel for 40 years at least, and you should expect it to stay there on site for 80 years before it ever finds another home.
And, you know, if there's a lot of concern about the company, are you going to stay in business for 40 years?
Right.
I mean, that's a real challenge.
Let's look at what they call them, abandoned mines and wells that are, you know, from producers that have gone under and miners that have gone out of business.
Are we looking at the same thing with nuclear power plants, do you think?
Well, ultimately, the Department of Energy picks up that tab.
Department.
They have to license it.
They license it.
They require the bonding for it.
They pick up the tab for that maintenance and security of that facility should something happen.
I see.
Is there any discussion about a landfill in Wyoming?
You know, I had a thought.
I was like, well, why don't we have a cell, you know, in a landfill, maybe not here next to a town or anything, but somewhere out like the middle of the Red Desert or someplace.
And we rent the space, the cell out for the half-life, you know, and whoever generated that waste has to just keep paying us a monthly fee to rent that cell.
Well, we're going to find out how that, that is called an independent, I believe, independent spent nuclear fuel storage site.
So, all spent nuclear fuel now is stored at the location of the operator.
Right.
The generator of the facility.
And that's what we're going to have over at Kimmer, but the TerraPower one.
So, they will be storing spent nuclear fuel at that location at the TerraPower plant.
And they should expect that to be there 80 years.
I don't know how much that actually generates.
We're still a number of years away before they ever get to that point.
Probably, I say five years.
Okay.
At the earliest you'll ever see a dry cast stored there, but it will be stored right there.
There are proposals in New Mexico and Texas to create these independent nuclear fuel rod storage sites,
which is kind of what you suggested.
It would be like TerraPower would be able to contract with the facility in New Mexico.
The landfill, right.
And they'll transport that.
And that's still temporary storage until the federal government decides they want to have a permanent storage site, right?
Right.
And they've been trying to get one of those for 50 years.
For my whole entire life.
And it'll be another 50 years.
So, I would not expect anything.
But I think you could probably take one of those dry cast storages, set it out there for 200 years and not touch it, right?
Yeah, nothing's going to...
Throw a little paint on it.
Right.
Keep it out.
It'd be nice probably if you could keep it out of the rain.
Yeah.
Just for erosion purposes, but to me, my biggest concern was whoever's in the first one in a business like micro-reactors,
any technological enterprise, seems like the second or third person comes in, comes up with better ideas, little ideas, and improve that process.
And the first one gets left behind.
What was it called?
MySpace?
Oh, yeah.
Remember?
Right, right.
Was that before Facebook?
Home pilot and those type of things?
Yeah.
Those were great.
We've seen all kinds of technology.
All great ideas and really flash in the pants that took right off and then somebody come up a better way to monetize it,
better way to develop it, better way to improve technology.
Right.
And that was kind of my concern.
Is a micro-reactor, the next guy in, going to be the real winner?
And you're sitting here for a number of years.
But, you know, it's interesting technology.
Gee, I, you know, I'm not.
Right.
So I worked in the natural gas, worked around flammable liquids and gases for 40 years.
A few emitting neutrons didn't worry me too much.
Right.
Is there any, any legislation coming up this next session considering, or concerning nuclear?
Not yet?
Maybe?
Well, I think the security bill about, is related to the TerraPower.
I think that's going to be on the, that almost needs to be passed because TerraPower already has a facility.
So they, and they're already training people for the security of that facility.
I see.
So that's already underway.
So.
But the state wants to weigh in on this.
Well, they just want to make sure there's agreements between their security protocols and local sheriffs and, and that type of thing.
Some, some coordination.
That's basically what it is.
What, what, what, how far can you, you know, you have someone trespassing on your nuclear site.
Yeah.
What can you do?
What can you do?
What can't you not do?
I would certainly recommend never trespass on a nuclear site.
That's what I would recommend.
It's kind of like the guys that used to go out and beat on the, the, the, the, the missile sites, right?
They go out and hammer away on them.
They put them in jail for 10 or 15 years.
Maybe there's something like that that needs to be enacted so that people don't go out there with hammers and beat on the, the little, the 400 gallon frack tank cells, right?
We don't, we don't want to see any of that.
Right.
Right.


EPISODE 2: JR_RIGGINS_-02
=========================

Well, we were talking about power, and might as well just keep talking about power.
We got some data centers coming into the state of Wyoming, one being built in Cheyenne.
I heard a proposal about one built between here and Casper and Glenrock, halfway between or something like that.
It's going to be powered by natural gas.
Tallgrass is a partner, the one in Cheyenne, right?
They're providing the gas from their collection network.
What can you tell me about those things?
Full disclosure, I used to work for that company and retired here in July for Tallgrass Energy.
Yeah, they're going to provide gas-powered turbines in Cheyenne,
and I believe that's directly just for the purpose of the data centers there in that location.
I don't know if it's just for the one.
I'm just going to assume it's for one particular company.
It had a pretty big, I don't know, in the gigawatt range.
And, yeah, there is discussions going on here just to our east out of town between here and Glenrock about a proposal to put a data center.
I think it might be a little bit different style.
It's not like Google's planting something there.
I think there's a developing trend where companies are putting the infrastructure together where they have the building and they have the power and they have a method for the cooling system, in a sense, for the actual processing.
But then rent out the whole entity.
All that, one of the big discussions in legislation has been the exemptions for sales tax or just elements of it, right?
Not really for the construction.
Right.
Are we doing...
For all the chips and the cards and all that graphic.
I guess my question is, is the state doing anything to get ahead of the permitting process?
Is that being left up to the counties or do we have something going on at the state level?
Well, you're going to have, if you, like, for example, if you're going to put in a gas-powered, a natural gas-powered plant, electrical plant, you're going to have to get DEQ permitting.
I mean, you're going to have to have air permits, the whole nine yards.
And when they make application for that, the public can take a look at them.
And you're going to see what the horsepower is, what kind of consumption they're expecting, what is the anticipated emissions off of a facility like that.
And so, I mean, if you look now, you might see something.
I don't know.
I haven't looked.
I'm going to guess if you looked at DEQ page, you might see what they have planned for Cheyenne.
I see.
So, if we needed some more information, we could go look at the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality's web page and look at the stage or where that permit is at, get a little bit more information, become a little bit better informed.
And if we had some questions, where would we go with our questions?
Well, if you're in a person really interested, you need to pay attention to that DEQ website because there will be a comment period.
Depending on what kind of comment they're looking for, 30 to 90 days, you'd have to look it up, what the specific parameters will be on that.
That's the one in Cheyenne.
Well, that'd be for almost anybody who's putting up a facility that's going to have a major, going to have emissions coming off of it.
So, they have to get their air permit waivers and all that.
A public comment period, and that's going to be available for just anybody to walk in and express their concerns.
Well, most of the time, you can do that.
You can comment online, submit in comments.
But the key for all of that, for public comment and any of these types of things, not just for power.
Like I said, I was involved in federal land management stuff, is making sure you know where that quick tab is on your computer to look at what takes you directly to the page that has those notices, right?
And you can also subscribe.
Now, on the State DEQ, I don't know, they probably have a subscription where you could just, you know, give them your email, and they'll send you things.
But I don't know if you're just going to get a slug of things every day.
Or can you, my guess is you might be able to pick a specific subject, specific permit, and you'll be able to click on that.
And they will send you any corresponding information, and hopefully they would automatically have you updated when there's comments due and things like that.
But, you know, it's incumbent upon people to take it on their, make sure they take action if they're really interested in it.
Because if you don't comment, you don't have standing.
Right.
It's kind of a thing, you know.
It's up to us.
We're citizens, right?
And we need to take our responsibility seriously.
We can and should weigh in on issues that are important to us.
And I think we better keep moving, because I'm looking at my outline here, JR, and I'm like, wow, we're burning up some time.
Let's talk about public lands.
And I just saw an article, I think on Wildfile, about our feds, our federal representatives, Barasso, Loomis, and Hageman,
and weighing in on some Department of the Interior stuff about, you know, reigning in that federal overreach.
And, you know, I was at dinner with my sister, and she's like, you know what?
They're trying to tell me I can't ride my snowmobile on this trail she was going to go up to this year.
And that just got her all fired up.
What are we doing in the state to, you know, help that process?
Is there anything we can do with the Department of the Interior at the state level, besides, you know, rattling our swords and sabers and screaming a little bit?
Yeah.
Yeah, there are things you can do.
And I've done them myself.
Department of Interior, people who don't know, that's the Bureau of Land Management Division.
The United States Forest Service, that's the Department of Agriculture Division.
And, of course, they're separate.
They all have a kind of following National Environmental Policy Act, NEPA's rules.
They do it kind of differently.
I tell people this.
When it comes to public being a member of the public, getting to participate in federal land management decisions, the Forest Service, by far, has the most robust ability for you to participate.
So robust that you may not live long enough to see the outcome.
So that's a good and a negative part of that.
The BLM is a distant second.
And it's harder to find where they do all that stuff.
That's called, they have a program called e-planning.
And it's tedious.
You can't just type in keywords and have stuff automatically pop up.
Quite frankly, I think it stinks.
But, and then, of course, you have the other public land in the state.
You have, well, you have Bureau of Rec and some other elements of it that don't get near the, you know, it's not nearly as common to have comments on that.
And then the last one is state land, technically, right?
And those are the ones where you have the most sway.
No, I say state land, you almost have the least amount of sway.
You don't have any say at the legislative level?
Well, you do at the legislative level.
And you do have, like, at the slip board and things like that.
But, truthfully, just a regular person because state land is not managed for multiple use.
Whereas, Department of Interior, United States Forest Service is mandated to manage for multiple use.
Technically, state land is not.
Really?
I did not know that.
Yep.
I went to a state land.
We went to a forum in Laramie not too long ago, a couple months ago, three months ago.
And there's a lot of people from other states.
For example, like Montana has, their state land is, they do take public comment on it.
And they, it is, and it's heavily incorporated into recreational use and other uses, right?
But Wyoming isn't set up like that.
So, it would take some changes, maybe even constitutional changes, to let people have more say in how state land is used.
And who gets the say right now?
Is that the governor who says?
Well, the slip board, the five elected officials stand on the slip board.
They, you know, they entertain the proposals that come in and stuff.
So, the Office of State Lands has its own office.
They manage all that stuff.
And, you know, to me, it's worth people getting familiar with that, especially for recreation, for industry.
They're more, they're very accommodating for industry and agriculture.
They're less accommodating for recreation.
And that's kind of been the story for quite a while.
I mean, it's an improvement from the days when the lease, from the 80s and 70s, when the leasees controlled all access to that.
So, it's better than that was before.
But, still, that's not what people think.
So, the process, if I wanted to go open up a lithium mine somewhere on state property, I would have to get a lease, right?
Oh, yeah.
Just like if I was to go drill a well on state land, I'd have to go get a lease or something like that.
That's that new show out there called Landman, right?
His whole basis in existence is that he goes out and gets the leases.
All on private land, though.
That was all private in Texas.
But, in Wyoming, it's a little bit different, right?
We have a lot of state land.
Probably a lot more BLM land, right, than state land.
I mean, yeah, for Wyoming, it's mostly BLM.
Of course, in this part of the state, everything west of us.
I mean, it's like 65% BLM, maybe more.
Straight west of us, all the way to Landman, right?
But on state land, I tell people that, what was the phrase, they, if you, I'll have to rephrase that a little bit, because I was just thinking about when he was telling me about, they're pretty accommodating for industry and ag, right?
But that's their purpose, because in the Constitution, they're demanding state land to maximize revenue for the state.
That's right in the Constitution.
So, you can run up against some big battles because of that, which we had recently here, right?
So, what happens if little bits of that get torn away a little bit, so they're not emphasizing maximizing revenue, which is right out of the Constitution?
So, you know, I expect there could be, there needs to maybe be a little bit of reform on that.
I think the public should be a little bit more notified of what's happening earlier in the process.
Right.
So, what's going on?
It might not have the outcome, might not change the outcome, but you might at least have your say, right?
You should, we should all have our say.
We're citizens.
We elect our representatives.
We should have a little bit of input in the process, not just in the vote.
I think that's, would be very helpful.
Anyway, that's kind of leading right on into truth, trust, and leadership.
I wrote that down as one of the things I wanted to talk about.
And we've got a few minutes left.
As you know, I'm running for Senate in the state of Wyoming.
I got off my couch and decided to run for office and just said, well, I'll just bypass all the other offices.
You know, I reached out to a few folks.
So, straight for the top, right?
Just go in there and, you know, I consider myself kind of a cleaner.
I had a cleaning business, a small business that I did.
And I'm looking at Congress and I'm not real happy with what I'm saying.
I'm like, well, maybe we need somebody with a little cleaning experience.
It's actually environmental experience, but it's still cleaning, cleaned up, cleaned up messes made by other people.
Anyway, I'm looking at this also from, you know, kind of a truth and trust type of a deal.
You know, you take an oath.
You took an oath when you, before you got sworn in as a representative for the state,
swore to support the Constitution of the state of Wyoming and the Constitution of the United States.
And that kind of meant something to me when I first took that oath when I was sworn into the National Guard back in time, a little bit of time ago now.
But still meant something.
Does that oath, does that mean something to you, J.R.?
Well, you know, we talk about, and we briefly touched on it before, that the Constitution being the supreme law of the land.
And we seem, we sure seem to skirt as much as we possibly can nationally.
Yeah.
We tend to look the other way.
But, you know, they say that the Constitution, I've heard, it's vague.
I do not think it's vague whatsoever, right?
Yeah, I think it's as vague as you want it to be.
I mean, to some of us, that seems to be quite a bit.
And to others, it seems to be not at all.
Right.
And, you know, as far as that goes, I'm, you know, personally concerned enough to get off my couch and to start becoming politically active at this stage of my life.
Never occurred to me to do something like that because, you know, I was perfectly happy with what was going on, basically.
You know, it didn't seem too bad.
But we've been, you know, they've only been complaining about the Constitution and restrictions on it for about 200 years, right?
Right.
And like you mentioned early on, you know, you walked in and mentioned that the only person that never wanted a political party was George Washington himself.
And, you know, ever since then, we've had political parties and division.
But it seems to me like it's getting, the division is getting to the point where it's...


EPISODE 3: JR_RIGGINS_-03
=========================

causes and problems you know what people say that but i think people should uh read a little bit of
read a little bit of more history a little more personal history look at look at the feud between
jefferson and adams oh yeah look at the feud between hamilton and burr it doesn't get any
worse than that one right right so well i mean we've always had these things there's a factionalism
if you read i see that but but i i also see you know some some recent trends in violence and and
you know and that's to me that's where it gets out of hand where we let the the rhetoric is fine for
the folks up to a point up to a point when when you start seeing i i watched a documentary the other day
and he showed showed the speaker of the house of of arizona after the 2026 um or not 2026 i'm sorry
the 2020 election he was getting visits from folks out in front of his house where this was a pbs thing
and they showed folks you know threatening him his him threatening his children and then i recently
saw something with marjorie taylor green and i saw people threatening her when i saw them but
you know she was complaining about that her her children were getting threatened you know because
of the stance that she a political stance that she's taken and i'm thinking that's not really
political division there that's that's to me there's a line that's being crossed or what would
you say about something like that and how do we bring that that that conversation back to a more
normal is it possible to bring it back to a more normal tone there's one i think there's probably
one simple solution if most of that is on social media require your real name on every social media
post you have to no more no more anonymity no no anonymous stuff you know i also would that what
would that do it just in general i mean yeah people know who you are and you're not uh hiding behind
is this a state thing is there is something we can do at the state level or is this more of a federal
thing do you think it might be more of a social media ownership thing right well we can we can go
find the mark zuckerbergs and elon musk and we can we can tag them and you know you might get a blue
check mark if you put your real name right yeah or you you might uh you're you know and and they
they did some they tried but then they got in trouble if i remember correctly during during that
that time frame there was uh some freedom of speech blah blah blah this blah but i think that
you know any solutions in the jr riggins world for something like this well number one i think uh
i never read any of that i don't pay attention to i mean if somebody was saying anything i wouldn't
even know it right now what happens is your wives read all that stuff and they pay attention or my
children yeah but i think if you're um you never nobody's ever going to be happy with even
no i don't know what would be what how much are you how many people you're making happy on it
with a piece of legislation somebody's always disappointed because legislation is meant to
do only a couple things take authority from one person give it to someone else okay take money
from one person give it to something else so that's it's two primary goals or i should say
results is taking someone else's money doing something with it taking somebody else's authority
and doing something with it and and somebody's always going to be impacted negatively generally
speaking right so uh but i think but i think there's always been the only reason i think we hear
about uh all threats or that elevated complaining there's always been complaining about public policy
and people who make that policy but it's never been so easily found on a x post on a facebook post
never in history what you you see it in i used to write letters to the editor and you would see those complaints
or and nobody nobody really writes letters to editor to say how happy they are right they usually write
letters to enter to see how disappointed they are what's wrong with these how many times it's just
that's a great job and this and this on a post is uh that's probably one for every 25 negative ones
because negative ones just gives people an avenue to vent right so um i think if you're doing this
make sure you're paying attention to the legislation and you make sure we know what the consequences are
you know like we what we've been seeing here recently all that we've had discussions about all the property
tax stuff and the impacts it has to some uh what is fairness in taxation what is fairness in property tax
uh you know property tax is probably the oldest tax in the world either property tax is being taxed
directly or it's a sign that you have the ability to pay some actual hard-earned coin tax that
in the 17th century or the 16th century right rather than that poor guy only has five chickens
you go over there and steal one of his chickens you know that's all he has but if you have property
and feudalism days in medieval days you know it's just a sign that you have something to give the
king if you have to right right well it was back in those days that nobody owned any property so
you had to pay rent yeah you hung on you're right if you didn't the king owned it if you didn't pay your
rent to your to your lord yeah who was acting in the king's name you know then uh the lord moved you
along but they but the king took it from them too right he would get his his chunk from the lord but
anyway we don't have kind of we don't have that system anymore but and thank god we don't we have
the you know we have kind of represent ourselves you know and we have our responsibilities to keep the
system going um you know and we've kind of entered an interesting time for me and i really don't have
the answers to the division that we see that the the real divisive stuff that that creates those
those threats and and those though that i think that's when you a bridge too far maybe as a line
has been crossed in my mind and you know how do we legislate that line because there should probably
be some some some consequences for folks that cross a line and you know defining that line
is going to be an interesting challenge but and and i was just picking your mind on you know because i
think we can do something on the state level i think the state could could draw a line also well they have
you know just even rules in uh in our debate you know because people get fired up at one another
sure in the state legislature you know like we we go the extra mile on the on the on that you know
there's been a few times people have to kind of publicly apologize for something they say
right right on the chambers and stuff but by and large i don't uh i don't hear i have my first
year so i never really heard too much of that right and then and uh if people who don't know i missed
four weeks of it surgery right so unexpected surgery for it but so uh but they do go out of way at that
level now you don't see it in congress so much u.s congress right right i think they could be a
little harder on those people yeah about how they behave to one another and even though they have
rules on it they tend to pretty much accuse you of anything they want to you on that on
seems like it doesn't it at that level because and they probably have already done always done that
you know maybe but how would you know because those conversations aren't nobody was listening
to those conversations 24 7 for the first 200 years right but now there's always somebody out
there ready with a send a quip or a quote or something on facebook media any type of social
post that you would never have heard uh even 20 years ago it wouldn't it didn't exist so even if
they were all mad at one another you really wouldn't know it right right and i think that's
probably that's probably why we see it more we feel there's more of it now because of that
just the exposure uh an out of context statement is made and do you think that a conversations with
with you know like the one we're having right here where we got to sit down and look each other
in the eye do you think that might help bring that that that tone down and bring us back away from
that line that i was talking about well it did now if we're talking at like a legislative level
but here when you're talking about just uh random acts of uh bad behavior and conversation on
internet i mean what what is the subject that they're mad about what is the policy they're mad about
i think whatever you know that led that leads to that that that vitriol right they we got to tone
it down from what i have learned from my experience when they want uh my side to tone it down is because
they don't want to talk about the policy whatever it is and whatever policy but when you say i i kind
of kind of have a rule on the this is us podcast and that's we don't get to say they and them
this we always got to define it if you're talking about they being your your political opponents and
we just could be yeah it could be a political opponent or because it's hard for me to understand
when when we talk about and i see that in conversations somebody says they i'm like okay
who are you talking about when you say they yeah because a lot of times it's it it's actually us
you know because we actually i from my point of view as a citizen we're the ones that elect our
representatives yes i'm and i think i've when i use that phrase i'm thinking the anonymous posters
the anonymous all your social media and so when we don't even know who they are right if we don't
have a name and we can't put our fingers on them yeah then they shouldn't be i think that i've heard
it i've heard it mentioned a few times i think i see things on my my facebook feed occasionally where
it appears and you're like you don't really know if this is a real person or if it's a bot or if it's
you know some foreign actor we don't we don't know and you know is is that a line too far should
we should we should we ask mark zuckerberg to to stop people that we don't know from from on our
our facebook feeds would that be fair would that be a violation of free speech probably lower your
feed numbers your viewing numbers that'd be okay with me and there's some stuff that i mean and he
he does allow us to like you know you can click on something and say i don't want to see any more
of this and then that that's that's good i like they were taking some liberties here just not too
long ago and just getting rid of it themselves yeah not without your consent uh so i'm still that's
still in the background that that that is kind of an issue you know so if i don't want to see it
that should be my choice i suppose maybe that's that's the key right there and you know instead
of trying to legislate something like that you just accept the responsibility yourself you know
and if it's if you find something that crosses your line then don't don't be if you're if you run
for office and you know this is state level this isn't federal or something you just simply have
an obligation uh to be decent to be polite i mean even if you're mad about it and uh then i haven't
encountered that i have heard stories uh you know legislative stories and i couldn't even tell you
what the subjects are but you know everybody i'm uh there's no one i don't enjoy visiting with down
with the legislature i mean you can't visit with and there's 60 of it or but i will be on i don't
only know i only met a few i only know a few senators i didn't even walk over to that side of the house
except the first day to see where it was so we're represented by bob i'd have you had a conversation
yeah i know bob i'd the local senator is different drew perkins gruesome i've always liked drew uh
drew is the lieutenant governor right man no he's he's the chief of staff he's chief of staff okay
we don't have lieutenant governor we have chief of staff right so but i met uh just not too long ago
i ran into one of the senators and i had to kind of think i know he's a senator i have no idea who he is
because we literally you're so right you're so preoccupied you don't even make it across the other
side of the capitol and stop by the senate and say hello right and they're busy everybody the time is
the is the most precious commodity you have in the legislature because of how many limited days you
have to do what it works and the deadlines you have the whole process and it's pretty fascinating
actually and and uh i'm impressed by the people who are so experienced at it that it comes natural to
and uh it's certainly not going to you're not going to be a natural at that in a year and i think
i'll be honest with you they think that i don't think you're going to be an expert at that process and
and you're going to be a much better if you were in your third or third or fourth year you'd be way
more comfortable now uh i've been happy with the bills i've written at least i try to be very concise
on my bills i don't just put out a statement ask the lso to draft it up i have a very specific thing
i want to do with a piece of legislation i cross out this section put that comma in send it all like
that highlight it underline it and in red and cross out in blue and and uh so that the lso office doesn't
have to do any more work than than necessary and uh and i'm surprised sometimes i did uh ask somebody about
legislation once and i thought what that whole paragraph gets rid of these 17 paragraphs why
wouldn't they just do that well because lso is only so many people during that session and they
i'll be honest with you this is like 40 days of what if you have christmas going on here get all the
all the retailers right that's their their big everybody's working hard on selling stuff over
the christmas season here right now well that's what it's like in uh the session for lso that's
their christmas non-stop work 24 hours a day session for for a month so you're you're you're sending a
shout out to the folks in the lso office at the state no i've been impressed i mean they're impressing
you that's good we've got a good product then you said that was established in 1971
yeah and they they've had a time some time to grow and and provide a service to the to the
legislature and the folks in the state that's your staff you know and uh just we don't have our own
staff so we rely on them for the tech some technical expertise certainly department of revenue and the
mathematics and and you've just been watching the budget stuff yeah i uh i was just just uh messing
around on the lso or the ledge of the state it's it's it's wild ledge.gov or somewhere yeah something
like that and anyway i was there i noticed that you can you can get a copy of current legislation
pending legislation where the legislation's at a lot of information that's available to the public
there if you you want to go and take a look at it and you have a whole you have another it staff
through lso that's doing all that yeah posting all that keeping it up to date uh plus your
attorneys you know and you know what they're just they're uh uh you can drop in on them you know
in wyoming it's probably one of the it is the uh i'll bet it's the most unique capital and uh
relationship between elected officials and people come down to cheyenne so you don't walk in the door
right you don't have your a personal staff member do you know this is your the lso is your staff is
that that's how it works in wyoming do your own research you know i mean you rely on other
people might have some expertise in the field you know uh it could be anybody there's sometimes
their national stuff but you got to remember there's legislation all across the country that's
similar right not just wyoming i mean every if you're in a western state come having to deal with
public lands there's something going on in those states as well at the state level so yeah i want to
skip over a couple things i i know you're you you never did answer my question about the freedom
caucus and i i think we can probably skip that one we'll look at your voting record to determine
how you fall there and and keep that you know between you and and me and the constituency and
well i guess you never know where they publish that yeah yeah they you know and and and the person
the people that want to know wild file or cowboy state daily or wherever that that well they're
gonna put you wherever they want to put you you're gonna you're gonna end up there and there's nothing
you can do about that so let's let's move on to one of my favorite topics and that's money i we were
talking about um how wyoming's you know i i look at wyoming as conservative state and what that means
to me is that we don't squander money and it you know folks are like we uh we're all concerned about
property taxes and backfilling this and that and funding our schools tell us a little bit about how
the one how the state did with its uh with its investments last year well they they killed it
like everybody else well i won't know if everybody else but certainly they had i think they had record
breaking return on their their permanent minerals trust fund uh was it it was a close to a billion
dollars close to a billion dollars so if you go look at i guarantee you go to lso and department
revenue you're going to see some charts of grass you're going to see this one for the uh pmt
way way up right here at the end now is that an excuse to be able to go out and spend a bunch
more money on things that you would just love to have uh to me it's not i'm uh most conservatives
that's not i mean once we we we i think for me personally i like i'd like to leave some leaves
leave our state at a better position financially than we isn't you know if compare ourselves to
other states for a population this small i mean uh the government's pretty
also maybe resourceful is not to quite word number one you know we're required to have a balanced budget
so we can't get the deficit that that's more than some states can say right uh we benefit from an
economy and the minerals and oil and gas that other states have those very same things but
uh i don't think it benefits them as much as as it does our states those minerals and stuff
um and you come to rely on those things right and we haven't seen a big decline in that particular
area well the biggest one was the 1980s when i was
out here and and nobody you know and if you didn't live here at the time you don't you
you you can't even imagine how quickly it went backwards how many houses went to foreclosure
uh you know some of the places in michigan you've heard about like florida a number of years ago had
a big collapse in the housing market michigan over the years different times in their history
had big collapses not like this they we had 60 to 70 percent losses in your in your real estate
sounds like a warning yeah you're saying that that history shows us that it's not all
it can happen good times but but i think um the forces that created that anomaly i don't know if
they really exist now because of the the much larger global scale of energy trading and right it
certainly there have a right now it's a bit of a decline right yeah but in return because they have
such a when energy is low manufacturing prospers in a sense right energy is cheaper it helps them
right and somebody and we're invested in that kind of stuff in the in the permanent all of our
different investment funds we got it we got about about five minutes left here for this hour um
and is there anything you'd like to slip in here right at the end well let the so this be my first
budget session and to me it's already a slight improvement i think it's a little bit less than
last time i i thought last year's but maybe it wasn't but it's what the governor had is 11.1
billion dollars is what his recommended budget is i watched it and i i didn't i didn't record any of
the numbers are kind of going fast real fast because there's so much stuff going on uh in the
that is one of the the uh podcasts the on youtube lso the uh the lso office published that so you can
actually watch the whole budget episode when when when governor gordon goes in and and presents his
budget to the to the legislature right i thought it was worth listening to so if you haven't i mean
go to youtube and look for look for that that episode yeah it's on youtube and it's uh unedited and
people remind you when you're in the chambers uh turn off your speaker because people in ireland can
hear you and then uh also when you're in the back always stand back if you ever see pictures of the
house because the cameras go where the microphone is on it hits all four corners i see and so you get
don't be over there picking your nose at the wrong time you'll be on youtube but you're immortalized
i'll close with this on the budget uh of course everybody uh there was an article just yesterday
about the university of wyoming wanting i know they wanted another 40 some million dollars but
you know what one deal was three three million dollars for nil stuff right the college sports
no i'll say uh i don't i don't think it's a positive outcome what it's become of of uh college
football right that's is it is it semi-pro is that what it's going to be now oh they're gonna you mean
they're gonna start paying the players they're already paying they're already paying the players is
that right oh yeah it's you know i i really haven't put much thought behind that is that is that an
issue for for you well it's it's only an issue because now if you want to be competitive at the
ncaa level uh now you have you have to be part of that whole uh formula really so we we have to go
out there and and use money to recruit football players now and i'm gonna get i'm in the short i'll
say yeah that must be i don't know how is it i don't don't know the the particulars of is it direct
payments is it so if we ever happen to find another josh allen in wyoming we're gonna have to
like cough up some serious cash to keep him my guess if you find another josh allen wyoming if
somebody recognizes it in the first year you're not going to be able to afford to keep him in wyoming
that's that is a kind of a concern is that a state issue or is that a federal issue you know
well it's clear across college football everywhere you know so it sounds like it's an interstate issue
national issue and it's it's got period people from uh national sports broadcasters aggravated
about it and and now and now to me it's a little bit out of control i mean how are you gonna
rein that in right and what about what about the students who are just there to learn right go to
college you know and what about the football players that are there to go to college and they
they just get so yeah there's only there's only one out of a hundred of them are gonna go to the
to play football again after that and so if we start focusing that you know i i yeah i mean i've been
i've been a season ticket holder for decades i've been to hundreds of hundreds of football games
and uh now we got to worry about our best players getting sucked up well it and it's always been
it's not exactly always we kind of had to find that lucky nugget right right that was how it's
always been yeah i think so but now everybody's on tv everybody can be a talent can be spotted pretty
quickly and everybody's pirating everybody others player you know right so how long can a
uh wyoming or if you look at uw's budget i'm just gonna say it's three four hundred million
whatever it is it's a big number right right and is that gonna how big does that number have to get
before it's too big to to fund right or what are you gonna have to say no you're not gonna build that
not if you're gonna have a good team and basketball or whatever it is at any level and it seems like you
know you know i don't want to take anything away from the the the student athletes or anything like
that but at the same time i i think some common sense might weigh in here some limits on you know
the compensation that we could do and and if we're going to compensate when i was in school that was
that was just a forbidden thing you know you didn't do that in at this level and now it sounds
like that we have started it yeah if you if you cats out of the bag so to speak intimately uh i mean i
haven't dove into super deep but i am pretty sure there's players in the sec and in different
places they're making a million a season yeah that's as a as a as a college kid huh yeah well
you better teach some financial literacy while you're at that well hopefully they're taking that
class uh jr i think we we have kind of run out of time and that's an interesting topic maybe
something for the future to to delve into a little bit but thanks for for showing up for the
this is us podcast it is you know i think this is the second episode that i've i've talked about i
had one earlier last year well this is my first ever so so thanks a lot master it late master it
later maybe right and thanks you know now you got something to listen to as you go down the road
yeah i'll get this there's my wife yeah i'll get this up on spotify and uh um and we'll see how we do
all right
you
all right
all right
you
you
