Hello, this is Jim Skogard with This Is Us podcast. My guest today is J.R. Riggins from House District 59, State of Wyoming. How are you today, J.R.?
I'm doing well, Jim. Thanks for the invitation and looking forward to how this all turns out.
Hey, J.R., you know, me, I grew up in Grable Basin and I understand you grew up here in Casper?
Actually, I'm a South Dakotan born, but I worked out here from the age of 15 over in Cody and until today.
So I've been here as long as most people, except for 15 years, the age of 15 before that, I was mostly staying at home in South Dakota.
Gotcha. J.R., you just started with the house in January 2025, is that correct?
Yep. Elected here in the November election in the 24.
In 24? Oh, so you were elected in the 24 election and you got sworn in in January.
And what have been the challenges, do you think, so far?
Was it a steep learning curve to figure out how to interact in the house?
You know, I'm not completely, I'm not a novice to things like Robert's Rules from being involved in county politics and committee meetings.
I was on the state committee for three years, but they use a different set of rules there.
The biggest thing to get adjusted to is because there's 60-some people in there, so you don't trample over one another.
Very specific ways to communicate on the floor.
Lots of integration with other departments, the legislative service office, the membership, the whole process from getting a bill introduced to getting it passed.
In a short time frame, in a hurry.
I see.
Did anything ever get done in a hurry, do you think?
Well, we had a big goal of running, we had the five and dime plan.
I think that was five bills passed in 10 days.
And I think technically they made the cut on that.
Now granted, remember, that's just on the house side.
It still gets got to cross over to the Senate.
And that 10 days might be out the window.
And all you can do is focus on that side is the house activity, right?
Out of your hands.
Even a bill is out of your hands.
Once you get it introduced into the session, now it belongs to the body.
It's not your bill anymore in a sense.
So you're hoping it comes out looking like what you sent it in there.
Yeah, I understand.
So, JR, what got you interested in running for a house, for the state house?
Oh, I've been always kind of a policy wonk about stuff.
I've always been interested in, not so much, I've been interested in public policy at a federal level for land management planning.
I've been involved in that for probably 23 years since the thing called the 2005 travel management planning rule was passed by the United States Department of Agriculture.
I was very much motivated by that, learned a great deal about that.
So that was my first real introduction to public policy management, I guess, and how you can influence it.
So, was I really necessarily looking to do this 10 years ago?
I just recently retired here in July.
This wasn't really what I imagined I'd be doing.
I kind of thought I'd be riding my motorcycle and working on it when I wasn't doing that.
That was mostly what I was going to do.
But the way things turned out, my involvement with GOP politics at the county level, you know, I was familiar with a lot of people, knew a lot of what topics were.
And then, of course, we had a lot of stuff coming up this last two years from COVID and on that kind of motivated people to get more involved in public policy after you've seen all this from property taxes and all the other things that seemed to really mushroom over the next last three or four years, right?
Right. So, would you say that you were motivated more as just kind of something that you always wanted to do?
Or is there some specific things that you wanted to address in the state?
You know, you and I, we're both from Mills.
So, we're right here in Toronto County.
I'm a constituent of yours.
Yeah.
And so, I'm kind of interested.
Like, JR represents me down there in Cheyenne.
You know, what exactly is it that – do you have something specific that you're trying to accomplish?
I know that you showed me a bill earlier about some vehicle stuff, and I thought that was interesting, you know.
Well, you know, my initial – my campaign – I was looking at my campaign literature from last – almost a year ago, right?
Right.
And property tax, of course, was a big deal.
Now, we've addressed a lot of property tax issues.
You know, we have the relief portion, which a lot of that was coming online in this year, and 25 was applied, right?
So, I actually received those reliefs, long-term homeowners and all the other 25% reduction, et cetera, et cetera.
But, I only had two bills last year.
I had one bill regarding wind turbine blade disposal, which was kind of an issue around here in Casper for a while because of our landfill and stuff.
They were taking some of the blades.
I think there was a lot of confusion about that, and I didn't know if that bill would get introduced or not, but it got introduced in the very first week.
Sweet.
That was one of your bills.
That was one of my bills.
And was it successful?
No, it was not successful.
It got tabled, but you know what?
It achieved its goal to make –
Awareness, right?
To get people's attention.
What are you going to do with the blades in the future?
Right.
What is your solid waste disposal plan revolving around wind turbine farms in Wyoming?
There still isn't really a defined solid waste disposal plan.
They take up quite a bit of space, don't they?
Yeah.
And who's paying for that?
Does the operator have to pay the landfill for that?
You know what?
The landfill makes some money off of it.
I'll be honest with you.
If they would have – they were kind of neutral on the bill, realistically, until it got heard.
And once it was going to be heard, because they do have a lot of room at our landfill.
They do.
We do have a little space here in Wyoming.
We do have a little space.
And so they could make some money off that, a decent amount of money per ton.
And truthfully, if they probably would have highlighted that and say this offsets from keeping our operational cost being passed on, it kind of helps reduce it.
You know, people might be all right with it, but most people are thinking,
are you just going to fill up our landfill full of turbine blades?
That really was the motivating factor.
I see.
Yeah, and it didn't help when we had turbines right here within, I view of town, that aren't producing any electricity anyway, right?
Yeah, we've kind of got a question mark sitting out there in Evansville, don't we?
And that's going to go away.
They are going to go ahead and –
Are we taking them down and recycling them?
Get a little copper value out of it, maybe?
Well, I will say this.
The whole recycling about turbine blades, I think that's a bit of a myth.
Well, that's kind of – they're all fiberglass, aren't they?
Yeah, fiberglass, glue, resin.
Yeah, you're not going to make anything out.
That's just garbage.
So the landfill is the proper place for that.
But it got people's attention, Bill, and still something needs to be resolved.
Anyway, I felt it was – actually, I was very happy with it.
I felt it was a success because I got a lot of people talking to me about it, especially during the session.
Well, that's good.
It got their attention and has still got to go forward with more stuff to see what happens in the future because there's going to be 5,000, 6,000, 7,000 turbines in this state.
Yeah, there's – we have a lot of wind, don't we?
Yeah, 20,000, 30,000 blades.
I've got to go somewhere.
We've got a lot of wind and that stuff.
All that equipment is going to eventually wear out.
I've always wondered how they plan to make any money on wind energy when they have such high overhead.
Maybe there's enough wind to offset it, but I just – I'm not sure.
Anyway, moving on.
If you'd like to stick on energy, we could talk a little bit about nuclear power.
That seems to be popping up a little bit.
Well, that was certainly a hot topic here in Casper, so –
Oh, yeah, out in – bar none.
Right.
North of town.
I did take a tour at Idaho National Labs, and I'll be blunt.
I told people this up front.
Really, the least of my concern was the waste product, right?
Right.
At least the way that it's handled and stored.
Seems to be safe, does it?
Well –
Or at least safe.
It's certainly – those casts they're stored in are extremely robust.
Right.
I mean, 450 – they're equivalent about the size for people who live in Wyoming.
Everybody knows what a 400-barrel frack tank is.
Right.
Most of us do, right?
Take that 400-barrel frack tank, cut about three feet of concrete around it, and then shrink it down to a much smaller size on the inside.
Just going back to the 400-barrel frack tank, those are the ones you can load on the back of a truck and haul up and down the road.
Yeah.
They're not real – the real big ones, like out at Tallgrass, where they have, like, a storage –
Like the oil barrel.
I mean, 250,000 barrels.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Those are the ones that are stationary.
They're the ones that can move.
Yeah.
They're 20 feet tall, 12 foot wide.
And they put a little spent rod inside of one of those.
Well, it's a little bit bigger than that, but, you know, there's all types of varieties of them.
And the thing of it is, those things are extremely robust.
But I did tell people, it doesn't matter if they built one nuclear reactor or 200 nuclear reactors.
Somebody's going to be maintaining that single cask of spent nuclear fuel for 40 years at least, and you should expect it to stay there on site for 80 years before it ever finds another home.
And, you know, if there's a lot of concern about the company, are you going to stay in business for 40 years?
Right.
I mean, that's a real challenge.
Let's look at what they call them, abandoned mines and wells that are, you know, from producers that have gone under and miners that have gone out of business.
Are we looking at the same thing with nuclear power plants, do you think?
Well, ultimately, the Department of Energy picks up that tab.
Department.
They have to license it.
They license it.
They require the bonding for it.
They pick up the tab for that maintenance and security of that facility should something happen.
I see.
Is there any discussion about a landfill in Wyoming?
You know, I had a thought.
I was like, well, why don't we have a cell, you know, in a landfill, maybe not here next to a town or anything, but somewhere out like the middle of the Red Desert or someplace.
And we rent the space, the cell out for the half-life, you know, and whoever generated that waste has to just keep paying us a monthly fee to rent that cell.
Well, we're going to find out how that, that is called an independent, I believe, independent spent nuclear fuel storage site.
So, all spent nuclear fuel now is stored at the location of the operator.
Right.
The generator of the facility.
And that's what we're going to have over at Kimmer, but the TerraPower one.
So, they will be storing spent nuclear fuel at that location at the TerraPower plant.
And they should expect that to be there 80 years.
I don't know how much that actually generates.
We're still a number of years away before they ever get to that point.
Probably, I say five years.
Okay.
At the earliest you'll ever see a dry cast stored there, but it will be stored right there.
There are proposals in New Mexico and Texas to create these independent nuclear fuel rod storage sites,
which is kind of what you suggested.
It would be like TerraPower would be able to contract with the facility in New Mexico.
The landfill, right.
And they'll transport that.
And that's still temporary storage until the federal government decides they want to have a permanent storage site, right?
Right.
And they've been trying to get one of those for 50 years.
For my whole entire life.
And it'll be another 50 years.
So, I would not expect anything.
But I think you could probably take one of those dry cast storages, set it out there for 200 years and not touch it, right?
Yeah, nothing's going to...
Throw a little paint on it.
Right.
Keep it out.
It'd be nice probably if you could keep it out of the rain.
Yeah.
Just for erosion purposes, but to me, my biggest concern was whoever's in the first one in a business like micro-reactors,
any technological enterprise, seems like the second or third person comes in, comes up with better ideas, little ideas, and improve that process.
And the first one gets left behind.
What was it called?
MySpace?
Oh, yeah.
Remember?
Right, right.
Was that before Facebook?
Home pilot and those type of things?
Yeah.
Those were great.
We've seen all kinds of technology.
All great ideas and really flash in the pants that took right off and then somebody come up a better way to monetize it,
better way to develop it, better way to improve technology.
Right.
And that was kind of my concern.
Is a micro-reactor, the next guy in, going to be the real winner?
And you're sitting here for a number of years.
But, you know, it's interesting technology.
Gee, I, you know, I'm not.
Right.
So I worked in the natural gas, worked around flammable liquids and gases for 40 years.
A few emitting neutrons didn't worry me too much.
Right.
Is there any, any legislation coming up this next session considering, or concerning nuclear?
Not yet?
Maybe?
Well, I think the security bill about, is related to the TerraPower.
I think that's going to be on the, that almost needs to be passed because TerraPower already has a facility.
So they, and they're already training people for the security of that facility.
I see.
So that's already underway.
So.
But the state wants to weigh in on this.
Well, they just want to make sure there's agreements between their security protocols and local sheriffs and, and that type of thing.
Some, some coordination.
That's basically what it is.
What, what, what, how far can you, you know, you have someone trespassing on your nuclear site.
Yeah.
What can you do?
What can you do?
What can't you not do?
I would certainly recommend never trespass on a nuclear site.
That's what I would recommend.
It's kind of like the guys that used to go out and beat on the, the, the, the, the missile sites, right?
They go out and hammer away on them.
They put them in jail for 10 or 15 years.
Maybe there's something like that that needs to be enacted so that people don't go out there with hammers and beat on the, the little, the 400 gallon frack tank cells, right?
We don't, we don't want to see any of that.
Right.
Right.
