Well, we were talking about power, and might as well just keep talking about power.
We got some data centers coming into the state of Wyoming, one being built in Cheyenne.
I heard a proposal about one built between here and Casper and Glenrock, halfway between or something like that.
It's going to be powered by natural gas.
Tallgrass is a partner, the one in Cheyenne, right?
They're providing the gas from their collection network.
What can you tell me about those things?
Full disclosure, I used to work for that company and retired here in July for Tallgrass Energy.
Yeah, they're going to provide gas-powered turbines in Cheyenne,
and I believe that's directly just for the purpose of the data centers there in that location.
I don't know if it's just for the one.
I'm just going to assume it's for one particular company.
It had a pretty big, I don't know, in the gigawatt range.
And, yeah, there is discussions going on here just to our east out of town between here and Glenrock about a proposal to put a data center.
I think it might be a little bit different style.
It's not like Google's planting something there.
I think there's a developing trend where companies are putting the infrastructure together where they have the building and they have the power and they have a method for the cooling system, in a sense, for the actual processing.
But then rent out the whole entity.
All that, one of the big discussions in legislation has been the exemptions for sales tax or just elements of it, right?
Not really for the construction.
Right.
Are we doing...
For all the chips and the cards and all that graphic.
I guess my question is, is the state doing anything to get ahead of the permitting process?
Is that being left up to the counties or do we have something going on at the state level?
Well, you're going to have, if you, like, for example, if you're going to put in a gas-powered, a natural gas-powered plant, electrical plant, you're going to have to get DEQ permitting.
I mean, you're going to have to have air permits, the whole nine yards.
And when they make application for that, the public can take a look at them.
And you're going to see what the horsepower is, what kind of consumption they're expecting, what is the anticipated emissions off of a facility like that.
And so, I mean, if you look now, you might see something.
I don't know.
I haven't looked.
I'm going to guess if you looked at DEQ page, you might see what they have planned for Cheyenne.
I see.
So, if we needed some more information, we could go look at the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality's web page and look at the stage or where that permit is at, get a little bit more information, become a little bit better informed.
And if we had some questions, where would we go with our questions?
Well, if you're in a person really interested, you need to pay attention to that DEQ website because there will be a comment period.
Depending on what kind of comment they're looking for, 30 to 90 days, you'd have to look it up, what the specific parameters will be on that.
That's the one in Cheyenne.
Well, that'd be for almost anybody who's putting up a facility that's going to have a major, going to have emissions coming off of it.
So, they have to get their air permit waivers and all that.
A public comment period, and that's going to be available for just anybody to walk in and express their concerns.
Well, most of the time, you can do that.
You can comment online, submit in comments.
But the key for all of that, for public comment and any of these types of things, not just for power.
Like I said, I was involved in federal land management stuff, is making sure you know where that quick tab is on your computer to look at what takes you directly to the page that has those notices, right?
And you can also subscribe.
Now, on the State DEQ, I don't know, they probably have a subscription where you could just, you know, give them your email, and they'll send you things.
But I don't know if you're just going to get a slug of things every day.
Or can you, my guess is you might be able to pick a specific subject, specific permit, and you'll be able to click on that.
And they will send you any corresponding information, and hopefully they would automatically have you updated when there's comments due and things like that.
But, you know, it's incumbent upon people to take it on their, make sure they take action if they're really interested in it.
Because if you don't comment, you don't have standing.
Right.
It's kind of a thing, you know.
It's up to us.
We're citizens, right?
And we need to take our responsibility seriously.
We can and should weigh in on issues that are important to us.
And I think we better keep moving, because I'm looking at my outline here, JR, and I'm like, wow, we're burning up some time.
Let's talk about public lands.
And I just saw an article, I think on Wildfile, about our feds, our federal representatives, Barasso, Loomis, and Hageman,
and weighing in on some Department of the Interior stuff about, you know, reigning in that federal overreach.
And, you know, I was at dinner with my sister, and she's like, you know what?
They're trying to tell me I can't ride my snowmobile on this trail she was going to go up to this year.
And that just got her all fired up.
What are we doing in the state to, you know, help that process?
Is there anything we can do with the Department of the Interior at the state level, besides, you know, rattling our swords and sabers and screaming a little bit?
Yeah.
Yeah, there are things you can do.
And I've done them myself.
Department of Interior, people who don't know, that's the Bureau of Land Management Division.
The United States Forest Service, that's the Department of Agriculture Division.
And, of course, they're separate.
They all have a kind of following National Environmental Policy Act, NEPA's rules.
They do it kind of differently.
I tell people this.
When it comes to public being a member of the public, getting to participate in federal land management decisions, the Forest Service, by far, has the most robust ability for you to participate.
So robust that you may not live long enough to see the outcome.
So that's a good and a negative part of that.
The BLM is a distant second.
And it's harder to find where they do all that stuff.
That's called, they have a program called e-planning.
And it's tedious.
You can't just type in keywords and have stuff automatically pop up.
Quite frankly, I think it stinks.
But, and then, of course, you have the other public land in the state.
You have, well, you have Bureau of Rec and some other elements of it that don't get near the, you know, it's not nearly as common to have comments on that.
And then the last one is state land, technically, right?
And those are the ones where you have the most sway.
No, I say state land, you almost have the least amount of sway.
You don't have any say at the legislative level?
Well, you do at the legislative level.
And you do have, like, at the slip board and things like that.
But, truthfully, just a regular person because state land is not managed for multiple use.
Whereas, Department of Interior, United States Forest Service is mandated to manage for multiple use.
Technically, state land is not.
Really?
I did not know that.
Yep.
I went to a state land.
We went to a forum in Laramie not too long ago, a couple months ago, three months ago.
And there's a lot of people from other states.
For example, like Montana has, their state land is, they do take public comment on it.
And they, it is, and it's heavily incorporated into recreational use and other uses, right?
But Wyoming isn't set up like that.
So, it would take some changes, maybe even constitutional changes, to let people have more say in how state land is used.
And who gets the say right now?
Is that the governor who says?
Well, the slip board, the five elected officials stand on the slip board.
They, you know, they entertain the proposals that come in and stuff.
So, the Office of State Lands has its own office.
They manage all that stuff.
And, you know, to me, it's worth people getting familiar with that, especially for recreation, for industry.
They're more, they're very accommodating for industry and agriculture.
They're less accommodating for recreation.
And that's kind of been the story for quite a while.
I mean, it's an improvement from the days when the lease, from the 80s and 70s, when the leasees controlled all access to that.
So, it's better than that was before.
But, still, that's not what people think.
So, the process, if I wanted to go open up a lithium mine somewhere on state property, I would have to get a lease, right?
Oh, yeah.
Just like if I was to go drill a well on state land, I'd have to go get a lease or something like that.
That's that new show out there called Landman, right?
His whole basis in existence is that he goes out and gets the leases.
All on private land, though.
That was all private in Texas.
But, in Wyoming, it's a little bit different, right?
We have a lot of state land.
Probably a lot more BLM land, right, than state land.
I mean, yeah, for Wyoming, it's mostly BLM.
Of course, in this part of the state, everything west of us.
I mean, it's like 65% BLM, maybe more.
Straight west of us, all the way to Landman, right?
But on state land, I tell people that, what was the phrase, they, if you, I'll have to rephrase that a little bit, because I was just thinking about when he was telling me about, they're pretty accommodating for industry and ag, right?
But that's their purpose, because in the Constitution, they're demanding state land to maximize revenue for the state.
That's right in the Constitution.
So, you can run up against some big battles because of that, which we had recently here, right?
So, what happens if little bits of that get torn away a little bit, so they're not emphasizing maximizing revenue, which is right out of the Constitution?
So, you know, I expect there could be, there needs to maybe be a little bit of reform on that.
I think the public should be a little bit more notified of what's happening earlier in the process.
Right.
So, what's going on?
It might not have the outcome, might not change the outcome, but you might at least have your say, right?
You should, we should all have our say.
We're citizens.
We elect our representatives.
We should have a little bit of input in the process, not just in the vote.
I think that's, would be very helpful.
Anyway, that's kind of leading right on into truth, trust, and leadership.
I wrote that down as one of the things I wanted to talk about.
And we've got a few minutes left.
As you know, I'm running for Senate in the state of Wyoming.
I got off my couch and decided to run for office and just said, well, I'll just bypass all the other offices.
You know, I reached out to a few folks.
So, straight for the top, right?
Just go in there and, you know, I consider myself kind of a cleaner.
I had a cleaning business, a small business that I did.
And I'm looking at Congress and I'm not real happy with what I'm saying.
I'm like, well, maybe we need somebody with a little cleaning experience.
It's actually environmental experience, but it's still cleaning, cleaned up, cleaned up messes made by other people.
Anyway, I'm looking at this also from, you know, kind of a truth and trust type of a deal.
You know, you take an oath.
You took an oath when you, before you got sworn in as a representative for the state,
swore to support the Constitution of the state of Wyoming and the Constitution of the United States.
And that kind of meant something to me when I first took that oath when I was sworn into the National Guard back in time, a little bit of time ago now.
But still meant something.
Does that oath, does that mean something to you, J.R.?
Well, you know, we talk about, and we briefly touched on it before, that the Constitution being the supreme law of the land.
And we seem, we sure seem to skirt as much as we possibly can nationally.
Yeah.
We tend to look the other way.
But, you know, they say that the Constitution, I've heard, it's vague.
I do not think it's vague whatsoever, right?
Yeah, I think it's as vague as you want it to be.
I mean, to some of us, that seems to be quite a bit.
And to others, it seems to be not at all.
Right.
And, you know, as far as that goes, I'm, you know, personally concerned enough to get off my couch and to start becoming politically active at this stage of my life.
Never occurred to me to do something like that because, you know, I was perfectly happy with what was going on, basically.
You know, it didn't seem too bad.
But we've been, you know, they've only been complaining about the Constitution and restrictions on it for about 200 years, right?
Right.
And like you mentioned early on, you know, you walked in and mentioned that the only person that never wanted a political party was George Washington himself.
And, you know, ever since then, we've had political parties and division.
But it seems to me like it's getting, the division is getting to the point where it's...
